as a columnist steve lopez , the los angeles times , one day , i went through the streets in downtown los angeles , he stopped a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an africanamerican , likable , rough , homeless , who played on a violin , which had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because the steves article about it later became a book , which in turn it into a movie , with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the bassist , who studied at the juilliard conservatory , whose promising career was ended tragically early through his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel dropped out of juilliard , suffered a nervous breakdown and 30 years later , he lived as a homeless on the streets of skid row in downtown los angeles .
i recommend you all to read steves book or watch the movie , so that you don 't understand only the wonderful connectedness that occurred between these two men , but also , as the music that connection helped create and how she was , after all , the instrument , if this is allowed pun , helped the rally was to get away from the street .
i met mr. ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just finished a show of beethoven 's first and fourth symphony , and came out from behind the stage , to imagine myself .
he spoke in a very joyous and convivial tone about yoyo ma and hillary clinton and about how the dodgers would make it in the baseball world series . and all of this because of the treacherous passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven 's fourth symphony .
we came to talk to the theme music . and a few days later , i got an email , saying that nathaniel for violin lessons for me were interested .
i must mention that nathaniel refused medical treatment , because he was already treated with electric shocks and with torah zin and handcuffs , a trauma that has followed him all his life .
as a result , he is now extremely vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases . some are not so bad , and it disappears for days , knocking around in the streets of skid row , always exposed this horror and the torment of his own mind .
and in the same way a stimulus stage was nathaniel , when we started our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall . he had this crazy flickering in his eyes and was completely lost .
he was talking about invisible demons and smoke and how it was going to contaminate somebody in the bedroom .
i was scared , not as far as i am concerned , but i was afraid that i might lose him that he could sink into one of his situation and that i could destroy its relationship with the violin , when i started , about scales and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic violin pedagogy .
so i started to play .
i played the first set of the beethoven violin concerto .
and while i was playing , i realized that was going on in nathaniels eyes a complete change in front of them .
it was as if he was under the influence of an invisible medicine , a chemical reaction , which was the catalyst my game .
nathaniels medicine for anger turned into understanding , in a quiet curiosity and grace .
and as if by magic , he began his violin and to play by ear some excerpts from violin concertos and then asked me to play it to the end : mendelssohn , tchaikovsky , sibelius .
then we started to talk about music , ranging from bach , beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartók to salonen .
and i realized that he had not only a enzyklopädisches knowledge of music , but it was also a close personal relationship .
he spoke of her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the los angeles philharmonic .
when he played music and talked about music , was this paranoid , distraught man who was just pulled through the streets of los angeles , a lovely , welleducated , excellent , juilliard trained musician .
music is medicine . music changed us .
nathaniel music means for mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with the help of his imagination and creativity in something real .
and so he escapes his agonising conditions .
i understood that this is exactly what is the nature of the art .
this is exactly the reason why we make music : so that we do something that in all of us , there is deep inside , our feelings , through our artistic lens , can build through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of every expression achieved all of us , and that inspires and unites us .
in terms of nathaniel , the music took him back to a community of friends .
the redeeming power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him that his talent was recognized and respected him .
and i 'm going to play music again and again with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because it reminded me why i became a musician .
thank you very much .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i 've stolen quite unashamedly the cellist .
i hope you 'll forgive me .
so i 've known in my life many fish .
i 've loved only two .
this first , it was more like a passionate affair .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , rich , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was bred in aquaculture , allegedly after the highest standards of sustainability .
you could feel so comfortable that as you sell it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , i asked the president of the company , and whether i could recite at an event on the sustainability of the farm .
" of course , " i said .
here was a company that tried to solve what happened to this incredible problem for our cooks . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we fished the seas as we have beaten forests bald .
it 's hard to overstate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish , which we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the salmon , swordfish , they have collapsed .
it 's almost nothing left .
so , like it or not , aquaculture , fish farming , be a part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fischzuchtanlagen pollute the environment , most of them anyway , and they are inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has an animal exploitation of 15 to one .
in other words , 15 pounds of wild fish are necessary for breeding , so that you get a pound of tuna .
not very long term .
they 're also not very good .
so here at last was a company that tried to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
on the day before the event i called the head of public relations for the company .
we call him don .
" don , " i said , " just to give the facts right , you guys are famous for having to grow so far out in the ocean , that you don 't pollute the environment . "
" that 's true , " he said . " we are so far out there that will be distributed to the waste from our fish , not concentrated . "
and then he added , " we are basically an own world .
this feed conversion from 2.5 to 1 , " he said .
" the best in the industry . "
2.5 to one , that 's great .
" 2.5 to one what ? what feeding her ? "
" sustainable proteins , " he said .
" great , " i said . put on .
and this evening , i lay in bed , and i thought , ' what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i phoned up the next day , shortly before the event , don .
i said , " don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? "
he said he did not know that . he will pursue .
well , i telephoned with a few people in the company . nobody could give me a proper answer . until i finally telephoned with the senior biologist .
we call it too don .
" don , " i said , " what , for example , are sustainable proteins ? "
now , he mentioned some algae and some fish meal , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , " chicken pellets ? "
he said , " yes , feathers , skin , bone meal , leftovers , dried and used to feed . "
i said , " what percentage of your food is chicken ? "
in the adoption of perhaps two percent .
" well , that 's about 30 percent , " he said .
i said , " don , which is sustainable to feed chickens to fish ? "
there was a long pause in the leadership , and he said , " there is simply too much chicken in the world . "
i entliebte myself from this fish .
no , not because i am a selfrighteous connoisseurs and dogooder .
this is me .
no , i have entliebt actually saved me from this fish , because , i swear to god , tasted the fish after this conversation after chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it 's the kind of romantic , the way in which we learn , the more you know his fish , you love the fish .
i ate him first at a restaurant in southern spain .
a friendly journalist for a long time , had spoken of this fish .
she has to pair , in a way .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shimmering white color .
the chef had just drawn it .
and , you know , it was twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can enjoy a fish so good , after he was just drawn ?
i can 't do it , but this guy can do it .
we call him miguel . in fact , he says miguel .
and no , he 's not cooked the fish , and he is not a chef . at least the kind that you and i understand it .
he 's a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish farm in the southwest corner of spain .
it is near the mouth of the guadalquivir river .
until the 1980 s was the farm in the hands of argentines .
they grew meat cattle in what were essentially wetlands .
they did that , by being the country .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they have urged water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn 't do that , it worked , not economically .
and it was a disaster .
it brought in about 90 percent of the birds in order for this place , which are many birds .
and so , in 1982 , has bought a spanish company with environmental awareness in the country .
what did they do ?
they have reversed the flow of the water .
they have literally passed the lever .
rather than coerce the water they used the channels , it 's the water .
they flooded the canals .
they created a fish farm 27,000 hectares  perch , mullet , shrimp , eel  and in doing so , vice versa miguel and his company the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you 've never seen anything like that .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see are flooded canals , and these dense , rich march .
i wasn 't there long ago with miguel .
he is an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of " a crocodile to the kisses . "
okay ? there we were , and fought us through the wetlands , and i keuche and sweat , mud up to my knees , and miguel holds a biology class .
here he lifts a rare gleitaar .
now , he mentions the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminded him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he has become such a fish experts .
he said : " fish ? i know nothing about fish .
i am an expert on relations . "
and then he goes and goes to some more talk of rare birds and algae and strange aquatic plants .
and don 't get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , and the opening of the biotic community , that kind of thing .
it 's great , but i was in love .
and my head was weak on this piece of verkochte delicious fish , which i had on the eve .
so i interrupted him . i said , " miguel , how is it that your fish tastes so good ? "
he showed on the algae .
" i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , which is incredible .
but what you eat fish ?
how is their food ? "
now , he goes on saying to me that it 's such a rich system that eat the fish , what they would eat in the wilderness .
plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , which is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it is quite selbsterneuernd .
there 's no food .
ever heard of a farm , which is not feeding their animals ?
later in the day , i went to this plot with miguel around , and i asked him , i said , " for a place , which seems to be so natural , " unlike any farm , on which i was ever , " how do you measure success ? "
in that moment , it was as if it would have required a film director a stage .
and we turned around the corner and offered us the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , is literally a pinker carpet as far as the eye can see .
" that 's success , " he said .
" look at their bellies , pink .
they feast . "
" ? i was completely confused .
i said , " miguel , " she 's not your fish ? "
" yes , " he said .
" we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year were on this plot 600,000 birds , more than 250 different types .
it has become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves across europe .
i said , " miguel , is not a good gedeihender birdlife the last thing that we want to use a fish breeding ? "
he shook his head , no .
he said : " we build extensively , not very hard .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingoes eat the shrimp .
the prawns eat the phytoplankton .
je pinker so the belly , the better the system . "
okay , let 's think about that . a farm , which is not feeding their animals and a farm , which is putting its success at the health of their predators .
a fish farm , but also a bird sanctuary .
oh , and by the way , if this isn 't even flamingos in the first place .
they breed in a city 150 miles away , where the soil is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 150 kilometers to the farm .
and every evening you fly 150 miles .
and they do it , because you can follow the dotted white line the highway a92 .
in all seriousness .
i had imagined a kind of march of the penguins , so i started looking at miguel .
i said , " miguel , they fly 150 kilometers to the farm and then they fly 150 kilometers back in the evening ?
they do this for the kids ? "
he looked at me as if i just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , " no . you do it , because the food is better . "
i did not mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don 't like fish skin . i don 't sautiert it . i don 't like them crispy .
it is this scathing , charred taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tasted it in this restaurant in southern spain they tasted not at all for fish skin .
they tasted sweet and pure , as if you take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel and he nodded .
he said : " the skin acts like a sponge .
it is the last defense before something in the body .
it has developed over the course of evolution , to soak up impurities . "
and then he added : " but our water has no impurities . "
okay . a farm that feeds their fish . a farm that their success is measured by the success of its predators .
and then i realized that if he says , a farm that has no blemishes , he underplays monumental , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the guadalquivir river .
it is a river , all the things with it , which rivers nowadays tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , outflow of pesticides .
and if it has fought her way through the system , and this is leaving the water cleaner than what it 's got .
the system is so healthy ; it cleans water .
so it 's not just a farm , which is not feeding their animals , not just a farm , which is putting its success at the health of their predators , but a farm that 's literally a water treatment plant , and not just for this fish , but also for you and me .
because if herausfließt water , it is sinking in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i 'll take it , and you should do that , because this romantic love story , as always , is also instructive .
you could say that it is a recipe for the future of good food , whether we are talking about roughy or cattle .
what we need now is a radical new conception of agriculture , from a , taste the food is good .
but for many people , this is a little bit too radical .
we are not realists , we epicures . we are lovers .
we love farmers ' markets . we love small family farms . we 're talking about regional food . we eat organic .
and if you say that those are the things that the future of good food is to assure someone says somewhere on and said , " hey guys , i love the pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how are you going to feed the world ? "
i must be honest ?
i don 't like the question .
no , not because we produce enough calories to make the world more than just to feed .
a billion people today are going to starve .
a billion  that 's more than ever before  because glaring inequalities in the distribution , not the total production .
now , i don 't like that question , because she has determined the logic of our food system over the last 50 years .
feed grain to herbivores , pesticides in monoculture , chemicals in the earth , chicken , fish , and all the time has asked the agricultural industry simply : " if we feed more people cheaper , how horrible could that be ? "
that was the motive . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business in liquidation , a business that is eating away at fast ecological capital that allows this production .
this is not a business , and it 's not agriculture .
our granary today is threatened , not because of diminishing supply , but because of diminishing resources .
not by the latest harvester and tractor inventions , but by fertile land , not by pumps , but by fresh water , not by chainsaws , but through forests , and not by fishing boats and nets , but by fish in the sea .
they want to feed the world ?
let 's start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create the conditions that make every community to feed itself ?
in order to do this , don 't look at the agricultural industry model for the future .
it 's really old , and it 's done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in the spotlight in it and it has never produced something really good to eat .
instead , let 's take a look at the ecological model .
this is the one that uses two billion years of work experience .
if you look at miguel , farmers like miguel ,
companies that are not worlds for themselves , rather than to restore the national insurance companies who cultivate extensively rather than just intense , farmers , who are not only producers , but experts for relations .
because they are the ones who are experts on taste .
and if i 'm really honest with you a better cook than i 'll ever be .
you know , that 's me right , because if that is the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i 'd like to get closer to one thing today is that all of the data that we consume , is greater than the sum of its parts , and instead of considering informationsüberladung i want you to think about how we can use information in a way that raises patterns , and we see this trend , which might not be visible .
so , what we 're seeing here is a typical graph of death by age .
the program that i 'm running here is a little experiment .
it 's called pivot , and i can do with pivot that i can filter for a specific cause of death , we say accidents .
and now i see a different pattern that emerges .
this is because they are most active in the middle of the people on the field and they are over here on the gebrechlichsten .
we can go out and get one step further and then look at the data , and that disease and cancer , the usual suspects , but not for everybody .
now , if we continue and sort by age , say , 40 years or younger , we see that even accidents are the main cause is about who should people are worried .
and weiterforscht when you see that this is particularly true for men .
so you can see that reminds the reputation of information and data in this way to swim in a lively information design .
and if we can 't do this for raw data , why also for content itself ?
now what we have here are the titles pictures of each of the " sports illustrated " that were ever made .
it 's all here . it 's everything online .
you can test it after my talk in your accommodations .
with pivot , they can dive into a decade .
you can immerse yourself in a given year .
they can jump to a particular output .
when i look here now , i see the athletes who appear in this issue , and the sports .
i 'm a lance armstrong fan , so i click here with me all the spending show in which is mentioned lance armstrong .
now , if i want to get just a cruder overview , i might think , " ok , what if i look at everything with the subject of a bicycle ? "
so i 'll just go back and expand the view .
now , i see points are also .
and we have an idea that if you look at this kind of information , targeted , broader , zoom in , then alternatively , one does not simply surf or not .
you make something that is actually a little differently .
it 's something in between , and we think it can be used to change the way that information .
i would like to this idea , with a little bit more about what is a little crazy .
what we 've done is here , we have taken every single wikipedia page and brought it down to a small sum up .
the summary contains a brief overview and a symbol for the area where she comes from .
i 'm just going to the top 500 of the most popular wikipedia pages .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
now we get an idea of the issues that are the most popular on wikipedia .
i 'm going to choose the topic of government .
now , after i 've chosen ' government ' i recognize that the wikipedia categories , which cover most of time magazine " people of the year . "
this is really important , because this is a realization that this is not in a single wikipedia page .
this is just to see if you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a certain of these summaries , i can then in the theme of this year , time magazine " people " go in there , and see all together .
now when i look at all these people , i recognize that the majority of these government officials . some of them come from science . some people , even less , coming out of the economy . here 's my boss . and one is from the music industry .
and interestingly bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and look at all the ted prize winner .
you see , we surf the net for the first time , as if it 's really a network , not only from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i would like to show you what else might be a little bit of a surprise .
i 'm going to show you here just the new york times website .
then , this application  i would not like to call it a browser ; it 's really not a browser , but you can look at websites  and we bring this zoom technology to each site like this .
so i can go back to the next step , and jump directly to a specific section .
this is important , because you only through the viewing sites in this way can look at the whole internet history in the same way .
i can say in my course zoom into a specific timeframe .
here is the state of the demonstration , which i 've given up to this point .
and i can say , everything that i have now seen so far , bring back again .
and if i go a step back and look at everything , i can rearrange my history maybe after my search past . here , i have been searching for ' nepotistisch ' , here after bing , or here after live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go to the site and call them back .
it 's a metaphor , which is used over and over again , and each time , it makes the overall picture is greater than the sum of the parts of data .
at the moment , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we 're talking about the curse of the informationsüberflusses .
we 're talking about " drowning in information . "
what if we could turn around this situation and make the internet on its head , so that we can go instead of getting from one to the other , are starting to be able to go from many things to many things , and realize this pattern , which would have been otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then they will present data case , maybe a new source of useful information .
and , rather than just move into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and when we learn knowledge , then we can maybe even wisdom from it .
so , i hear , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heavy dose of science fiction .
when i was at school , i drove the bus to school every day , an hour each way .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book that my thoughts into other worlds kidnapped and narrative of my deep inside me sedentary , it also hints insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity , which i always , when i was not in school , wandering in the woods , wandered " and " samples collected , frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , all brought home and looked under the microscope .
i was wissenschaftsbegeistert total , you know .
it was always going to be an attempt to understand the world and explore the boundaries of what is possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to be reflected in my area , because at that time , in the late ' 60 s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with its fascinating broadcasts that showed us animals and places and a world full of wonders , which we never imagined .
this is then folded quite well at that sciencefiction role .
and i was an artist .
i was able to draw . i could paint .
and since there were no video games , these oversaturation with computergenerated films the whole visual language in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we had all the time . if we read a book as a child , we took the description of the author , and they projected onto the canvas in our heads .
my response was the drawing and painting by aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was constantly caught by the teachers , like me , hidden behind the textbook , herummalte .
the creativity somehow had to wait out .
and it was something interesting . what fascinated me saying to jacques cousteau 's shows , was the idea of an entirely unknown world here on earth .
i certainly would never reach an alien world with a spaceship . it seemed to me quite unlikely .
but here was a world that i could actually go , here on earth , and she was every bit as fascinating and exotic as everything that i had always imagined , when i had read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , to become divers .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 600 miles from the nearest ocean .
from this , but i did not discourage .
i was irritated by my father , until he finally made a diving school in buffalo , new york , had tracked down , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my certification in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i got only two years later , when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have elapsed since then , i 've spent about 3,000 hours under water . 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallower oceans , is so full of fascinating lives , as we can imagine is really difficult .
the imagination of nature knows no boundaries , in contrast to our own , pathetic human imagination .
to this day , i feel a deep reverence for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean continues , with the same intensity as ever .
when i watch it as an adult , a profession , it was making the movies .
this was the best way to my inner urge to tell stories , with my desire to create images to unite .
as a kid , i was constantly comic books and so on .
so these were films by the way , images and stories . it could fit together .
of course , the stories that i watch me , from the science fiction : " terminator , " " aliens , " and " the abyss . "
in " the abyss " i could make my penchant for the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so that 's kind of my two passions .
something interesting happened in " the abyss " recluse . to solve a problem in this movie  and we had to create a kind of liquid water  that we were on computergenerated animation , cg , back .
basically , it ends up as the first computergenerated soft surface figure , which was shown in a film .
the film has no money , in fact , he played just his production costs , but i noticed something very fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic , which assumed .
according to arthur clarke 's law , as we know , are fortgeschrittliche technology and indistinguishable from magic .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , " wow , that must be integrated into the film art . "
so we went in " terminator 2 " , my next film , much further .
along with ilm created in the types of liquid metal . the success depended on how this effect would arrive .
and it worked . and again we had created something magical . and the effect was the same in the audience . but we played with the film , a little bit more money .
from these two experiences in the light , was an entirely new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so , i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was at that time , the best makeup and creature designer . it was called " digital domain . "
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogue processes with optical printers , etc . , and to begin with digital productions .
that 's just what we did and did so for a while , a competitive advantage .
but in the mid  90 s , we realized that we in the creature and character design  for which we had founded the company actually  were doing too slow .
i had this piece of " avatar " written , this should leave the bar in terms of visual effects and computergenerated effects in completely new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that were being produced by cg . and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the yardstick pushed back quite nicely . and the people in my company told me that we are not yet able to do that .
so i moved it and made this other film about the big ship , this will be forgotten .
the film studio , i have this as a " romeo and juliet " sold on a ship . it was a love film epic proportions , a passionate film .
but i really wanted to immerse ourselves back to the real wreck of the titanic .
that 's why i made the movie .
that 's the truth . the studio didn 't know that .
i have seen them by saying : " we dive to the wreck . we film the real wreck .
we 're going to show it in the opening credits of the film .
this is extremely important . it 's a good reason for marketing . "
and i persuaded them to finance an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that you can create your own imagination a reality .
we then created six months later , in fact , a reality in which i found myself in a russian dive boat again , four miles beneath the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a window .
this was not a film , not an hd , that was real .
so , that blew my mind .
and preparations were enormous . we had to build cameras and lights and whatnot .
and i noticed how much these deepsea dives , resembled a space mission .
well , they were also hightech and needed extensive planning .
alighting at this capsule , then you are in this dark , hostile environment , where there is no hope of rescue , if it is not .
and i thought , " wow , this is the same as i would be in a sciencefiction movie .
it 's pretty cool . "
i was really obsessed with the exploration of the deep sea .
in any case , the part that has to do with curiosity and science . it was everything . it was an adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that i could not give hollywood .
because , you know , i could imagine a being that we were able to create a visual effect . but i couldn 't imagine what i would see outside the window .
some of the following expeditions , i 've seen in thermal springs , and sometimes things that i had never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and for the science at the time , when we saw that they had found no words .
this has upset me so well , and i wanted to know more .
and so then i met a rather unusual decision .
after the success of " titanic , " i said to myself , " okay , i want to show my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i will , for a while , fulltime researchers . "
and then we started , rrrrrrr appeared to " bismarck , " and they were exploring with robotic vehicles .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took small robots that we had built , which is a fiberglass cable abwickelten .
our intention was hineinzutauchen and look at the inside of the ship , which has never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wrecks . we had no funding for it . so we developed the technology .
oh , and here i am now , on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i see planks , which is pretty similar to those boards , and i know that there was a time when the band played there .
and i 'm with a little robotic vehicle through the corridors of the ship .
well , it was actually only , but my consciousness is inside the vehicle .
it felt as if i were physically within the wrecks of the titanic .
that was the surrealste form of a sense of déjà vu that i 've ever experienced . because before i bent at a corner , i knew all along that would reappear in the beam of the car , because i had been running for months over the film set , when we shot the film .
the kit was an exact copy of the blueprints of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
it made me aware of this telepresence experience that you can use these robotic avatars and so your own consciousness in the vehicle , can move into this other kind of existence .
it was really incredibly profound
and maybe even a few examples of what might happen in a few decades , if you 've got cyborg body , to explore something or other things to do , in all sorts of post humane future scenarios that i can think of as science fiction fan .
after these expeditions we started what we had seen down there , you won 't really appreciate , for example , these deepsea vents where we saw these incredibly amazing animals . these are almost aliens , but here on earth .
they live with the help of chemosynthesis .
they don 't exist in a system based on sunlight , as we do .
and so you see animals , right next to a 500 degrees celsius hot that they cannot survive there .
at the same time , i was also very for space science , that was again the sciencefiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with those people who are interested in space , and they have to do with nasa and the nasa experts sit and plan right space missions . they go to russia , before the mission to go through the biomedical protocol , including all the frills , then fly to the international space station and take our 3 d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end it was that it was that i ninebyseveninch space scientist with us in the deep sea .
i took them with and verschaftte them access to the world at the bottom : astro biologists , planetary scientists , people who are interested in such extreme situations . i took them to the sources , so that they look around , take samples and could test instruments and so on .
we shot in documentary films , but actually science , to be precise : space science .
so joined the circle between my existence as a sciencefiction fan , at that time as a kid , and the implementation in the reality .
during this expedition i 've learned a lot .
i 've learned a lot about science . but i think now you must surely , a director can also lead to a leader as a captain of a ship or something .
but i didn 't understand a lot of leadership , before i took these expeditions .
because at a certain point i had to tell me , " what am i doing here ?
why do i do this ? what comes out of it ? "
the stinking films bring us any money .
we play like going to the cost of production . no trace of fame .
anyone thinking that i was between " titanic " and " avatar " runaway , and it would have been finetuning me somewhere down the nails on a towel at the beach .
i have all these films , this documentary , made for a very small audience .
no glory , no glory , no money . what are you doing ?
and you do it for the sake of the task , for the sake of the challenge  and the ocean is the most challenging environments that are out there . you 're doing it because of the discoverers intoxication , and because of the strange combination which occurs when a small group of people a team .
because we 've done all this with only 10 to 12 people who have worked for years without a break . there were moments when we were 2 to 3 consecutive months at sea .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the respect that you 've got to each other because you have finished a task that can we explain to any other things .
if you 're going to get back on land , and he says , " we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakening , and the whole trappings , the whole technology , and the difficulties , the human capacity , if you 're working at sea , " you can 't explain the other simple . it 's very much like the policemen or soldiers who have been through something together and know that they can never tell anyone .
because there is a link , a mutual respect .
so , when i got back to my next movie " avatar " shoot , i tried to apply the same style of leadership , which is that we respect his team and earned the respect in return .
this has really changed the momentum .
so , there i was again with a small team of unknown terrain . we shot " avatar " with a new technique that did not exist before .
an extremely exciting one .
a tremendous challenge .
and we were for a period of four and a half years into a real family .
it changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought that we would have copied this ocean creatures are really good and transported on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more a fundamental way of doing my job , the real process that has changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think , first of all , the curiosity .
it is the most powerful human quality .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the respect of your team is more important than all the laurels of this world .
come to me young filmmaker who say , " give me some advice about how i could do something like this . "
and i say , " don 't closets yourself .
the others were able to get it for you . do not do unto yourself , don 't bet against themselves . they take risks on you . "
nasa has a favorite phrase : " failure is not an option . "
but in the arts and explore failure must be an alternative , which is where it guarantees a trust .
not a major undertaking , requiring the innovation , was ever tackled without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
this is the idea that i will happily give . fail is a real option , but fear is no . thank you .
today i 'm going to talk to you about energy and climate change .
and this is perhaps a little surprised , because it 's my fulltime employment in the foundation mainly vaccines and seeds , about the things that we need to reinvent and deliver to the poorest 2 billion for a better life .
but energy and climate change are extremely important for these people , in fact , even more important than any other on the planet .
klimaverschlechterung means that they will not grow their crops for many years . we rain too much or too little . things will change in the way that it can 't be able to withstand its fragile environment .
this leads to hunger dying . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be a terrible for them .
moreover , the energy price for them very important .
the fact is that , if you could reduce by one thing only the price of energy poverty reduction would be by far the most effective .
now , the price of energy has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress of society is based on energy advances .
the coal revolution , the industrial revolution , and even in the 20 th century , there was a rapid fall in the price of electricity , and this is why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can create modern materials and do so many things .
so we find ourselves in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but , if we reduce the price  we can halve the price  we find a new barrier , and this barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warmed the planet and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they add that launched co2 , which leads to the temperature increase , and this increase in temperature has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather , and perhaps even worse , the indirect consequence that can adjust the natural ecosystems , such rapid changes , and thus coincide whole systems .
now , the exact relationship between the rise in co2 and the advance temperature change and what are their further consequences , there are some ambiguities , but not very many .
and there are certainly some confusion about what those consequences will be bad . but they will be extremely bad !
i asked several times the top scientists , " do we really get down to near zero ?
isn 't half or a quarter ? "
and the answer is : until we come close to zero , the temperature will rise further .
so it 's a great challenge .
it is very different than to say , we have a 3.5 foot truck , which is under a 3 foot bridge . then you can squeeze out among them .
this is at the bottom of the list , to zero .
well , we have a lot of carbon dioxide each year , about 26 billion tons .
every american about 20 tonnes . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , there are about 5 tonnes for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we need to bring changes that reduce the zero .
so far , it has risen constant .
just different economic changes have influenced it in the first place , and we must of rapid rise to reduce and go to a reduction of up to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . they have this thing on the left  co2  that you want to get towards zero , and that will depend on the number of people , from the services that everyone uses , on average , the average energy for each service and the amount of co2 emitted per unit of energy .
so let us look at every single factor , and we think , how do we get it to zero .
probably one of those numbers must come very close to zero .
now , this is basic algebra , but we 'll go through it .
first of all , we have the population .
today there are 6.8 billion people .
and it continues to 9 billion zu. to move to 9 billion .
if we have been very successful with new vaccines , health services and reproductive medicine , we could reduce the probably at 10 % to 15 % , but by the time we see a slope at 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
this includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction , to make these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it 's great that this number is rising .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we could probably make concessions and use less , but on average each year , that number is rising , and therefore more than doubled , the number of services per person .
here we see a very basic service . there is light at home , so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don 't have it , so they go out and read their homework under the street light .
now , in effect , the e , the energy per service , finally , there is good news .
we have something that isn 't .
as a result of several successes in the lighting sector , by other car models , with new methods in the housing construction , there are a lot of services , their energy expenditure some individual services can be reduced by 90 % .
in other services , such as the manufacture of fertilizers , or the air traffic or air traffic , is the room for improvement is much smaller .
in general , if we are optimistic , maybe we 'll get a reduction by a factor of 3 or maybe even by a factor of 6 .
but for the first three factors , we now have gone from 26 billion to 13 billion tonnes perhaps hardest . and this is just not good enough .
so let 's take a look at the fourth factor  and this will be a key factor  this is the amount of co2 emitted per unit of energy .
the question is whether you can get it to zero .
if you burn coal : no .
if you burn natural gas : no .
almost every method for electricity co2 emissions today , except renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to make on a global level , is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
when i now use the word " miracle " , i don 't mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its services is a miracle .
the people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
normally , there is no deadline that you need a miracle by a certain date .
normally , you just sort of get it wrong , and some , others don 't .
in this case , but we have to pedal , and get a miracle in a very short period of time .
well , i asked myself , how can i get really ?
there is a natural illustration , a demonstration that fans the notion of people here ?
i remembered last year , when i got mosquitoes and somehow , people like that .
the idea was that they really tangible , you know that there are people who are living with mosquitoes .
for energy , it occurred to me that here .
i decided that bailouts would be of this year 's fireflies my contribution to the environment here .
so here are a few natural fireflies .
i have been assured that they don 't bite . in fact , they are not allowed to leave the glass .
well , there are all sorts of gimmick solutions , such as this , but they don 't get all that much .
we need solutions , either have one or more of an unimaginable scale and unimaginable reliability . and although there are many ways in which people are looking after that , i see only five who can make these big requirements .
i have tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
this perhaps make a modest contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my main message here is that we need to work on all those five , and we can 't let go of them , because they frighten us , because they all have significant problems .
let 's look at first , the burning of fossil fuels , either by burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do it , maybe it seems simple , but it 's not . you 'd have to all the co2 , which comes after the burning out of the chimney , capture , under pressure and then liquefy somewhere to store and hope that it remains there .
there are some pilot projects that on a 60 %  80 % level , but it 's going to get to 100 % . and very difficult to get an agreement for the storage of co2 , is a great challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage issue .
who is going to make sure it ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions and billions of times greater than any kind of garbage that i could think of nuclear and other things ?
that 's a lot of volume .
so this is a tough nut .
next : nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in hochregulierten countries are high . the question of security that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , in spite of human cooperation that is not being used the fuel for weapons .
and what do we do with the waste ?
because even though it is not very large , there 's a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that are perhaps solvable , and that 's why you should work .
the last three of the five here .
it 's the renewable energy , such as they are often called .
and also have the  although it 's great that they don 't need fuel  they have some disadvantages .
for one thing , the energy density that these technologies are dramatically lower than that of power plants .
these are energy farms , they speak of many square miles , a thousand times more space than a normal power station .
in addition , these sources are subject to disruption .
the sun doesn 't seem all day , nor is it every day , and not just the wind blows all the time .
therefore , if you 're from these sources , have a way of that energy even in times when you is not available to get .
so there is a big prize challenges . there are challenges in the transfer . when we say , for example , that the energy source outside the country , you don 't need only the technology , you have to deal with the risk that the energy of the origin of differently .
and there is the storage problem .
and to show the scale , i have all kinds of batteries that are produced , looked at : the for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything . and i have with the amount of energy , which uses the world , compared . i found out that all the batteries that we produce now could store less than 10 minutes of the total energy .
so we have a big breakthrough , something that will be better by a factor of 100 , when the approaches at the time .
it 's not impossible , but it 's not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to these interrupted sources about , say , 20 %  30 % of consumption .
if you want to draw at 100 % sure , you need an incredible miracle battery .
well , where should we go : what is the right approach ?
a " manhattan project " ? how do we get to your destination ?
what we need is a lot of companies that are working . hundreds .
in each of these five areas we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say : you 're nuts ! that 's good .
i think , here in the ted group , there are many who are prepared to be there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar the great solarthermaltechnologien .
vinod khosla invested in dozens of companies that are doing great things and interesting ways , and i 'm trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i pay for a company that , maybe , surprisingly , followed the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry , some time ago , so it 's no great surprise that lying around some good concepts .
that means terra power concept that instead of part of the uranium , the one percent that u235 , we decided to burn off 99 % , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you 'd be thinking about it for a long time , but you could never simulate reasonable , whether it would work , but since then there are modern supercomputers , can simulate and look at it that , yes , with the right materials approach , it appears that it does .
and because you burn these 99 % , is the cost of a lot better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today 's reactors as propulsion .
instead of trying to be worth , you simply burn it . it 's a great thing .
the uranium is consumed by degrees , a bit like a candle .
you can see that it 's a kind of column , often called the " walking wave reactor . "
this is really the problem of fuel .
this is a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , which is 99 % . you 've got the part that is burned out today , so that means it aufgebrauchtes uranium .
the rocketing the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you 're filtered ocean water cheap and simple , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life of the planet .
you know , there 's a lot of challenges , but it 's an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to move forward .
we think about ourselves , how we should measure our success .
what should be our witness ?
now , let 's go to the goal that we need to achieve , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
a lot of talk about a 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it 's really , really important that we get there .
the remaining 20 % is produced in poor countries , as well as something is still agriculture . hopefully , that will be waldrohdung and cement until then .
so , in order to achieve this 80 % , the industrialized countries , including countries like china , to change the direction of their electricity generation .
the other side says , whether we use the zero emissions technology , whether it is used in all developed countries , and we are on the way to get them to the rest .
this is very important .
this is a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what should be the 2020 testimony ?
it should contain , again , the two elements .
we should use the efficiency measures to bring reduction on the road . the less we emit , the lower the amount of co2 , and thus the temperature .
but actually , make this note for the things that we do not fully to the big reductions , only equal , or even something as important as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
these breakthroughs , we need to put the pedal to pursue and that we can measure : in corporate figures , in pilot projects and regulatory change .
there are many great books on the subject .
al gore 's book " our choice " and david mckays " sustainable energy without the hot air . "
they go through , and it really create a framework in which can be discussed this wide , because we need to support from all sides .
there are some things that must come together .
this is a wish .
a very specific desire that we invent this technology .
if i may only have one wish for the next 50 years , i could select the president , a vaccine , and that i love , or i could choose that desire , which reads , halving energy price without co2 is erfunden. that desire , i would take .
this has the largest impact .
if we can 't get this desire , it will be the gap between longterm and shortterm thinking person terrible , between the united states and china , between rich and poor countries , and almost all of the lives of those 2 billion will be much worse .
so what do we need to do ?
for what i call ?
we have to go for more research money .
when countries in places like koppen hagen , should they not only talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market incentives , carbon taxes , cap & trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to dialogue rational and complete , and also the things that are made by the government .
it is an important desire , but i think we can do it .
thank you very much .
thank you very much .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand a little better terra power  first of all , can you give us an idea of the magnitude of this investment ?
bill gates : to perform the simulation on a supercomputer to get all the great scientists , what we did , we need only some 10 million . and even if we tested our materials in a russian reactor , to ensure that it works properly , you 're only in the 100 million .
the difficult step is the construction of the first reactor to find billions more , building the regulations and the place of actually the first of these .
as soon as the first one is finished , so if he 's running as promised , then everything is quite clear , because the economics , the energy density is so unlike nuclear energy , as we know it .
in order to understand this correctly : that means to build deep into the ground almost like a vertical column that spent nuclear fuel , uranium and then the process begins at the top and working down and down ?
bg : exactly . today , you have to fill the reactor ever , so there 's a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and brings out stuff in there . that 's not good .
but when you have a very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years  think of a column  which you bury , without all the complexities .
and it sits there and burns for 60 years , and then it 's finished .
a nuclear reactor , which is itself a solution to the garbage .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the waste : you can let him sit  there 's a lot less waste with this method  then you take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it .
and we start by taking the junk that already exists , which is located in these cooling pools or dry steel at the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so this is what was a problem for these reactors , what we have in our fill and so dramatically reduces the volume of trash during this process .
but while you spoke with different people of the world on these opportunities .
where is the greatest interest to do something really ?
bg : now we have not yet established in one place , and there are a lot of interesting disclosure rules for all the " nuclear " in the name . there are a lot of interest and the people of the company were in russia , india , china , ... i was here and hit the energy minister and talked about it , how it fits into the energy agenda .
i 'm optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of a thing that 's been done .
this is an important step forward , but it 's like a fast reactor and some countries have built these , which is why anyone who has implemented a fast reactor , a candidal etiology for our first .
in your idea : timeframe and probability of something really ?
bg : well we need one of these scalable , stromgenerierenden things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to the invention and then 20 years at the onset .
this is like the deadline , which has shown us the environmental models that we need to respect .
and , you know , terra power , if everything goes well , and this is a big wish , that could keep the easy .
and fortunately , there are now dozens of companies , and we need hundreds of that , just as if their approaches work , does the promotion for their pilots , can bid for it .
and it would be best if there are several , because then you could use a mix .
in any case , we need a solution .
on the great potential breakthroughs , this is the greatest , you know ?
bg : a energy breakthrough is the most important .
so it would have been without the environmental challenge , but it still makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we do not know their work as well as this , but there 's the modular method , which is a different approach .
there is a liquid type of reactor , which seems a little difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule , a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and that 's why , if you can deal with the problems , which are mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in a league of their own .
if that doesn 't work , then what ?
we need to take emergency measures , to try to keep the earth 's temperature stable ?
bg : when you 're in this situation , it 's as if you ate too much , and just before a heart attack . what do you do then ? perhaps you need a heart surgery or anything else .
there is a line of research called the backlash that deals with various techniques to slow down the warming , so that we would get 20 or 30 years longer rally around us .
this is just an insurance method .
the hope is that we don 't need it .
some people say we should not even on the insurance work because it makes you maybe lazy , so that we eat , because you know that will save the heart surgery .
i don 't know whether this is wise , when you look at the importance of this problem , but there is now a discourse in some about whether you should have it available , if things are faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change deniers : do you have one or two sentences for the to convince you maybe ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics are living in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments , very little .
they say that there are negative consequences that have to do with the clouds , put it off ?
there are very , very few things that they can say anything , of which there are a chance in a million .
the main problem here is so similar to aids .
you make the mistake , and now you 're paying much later .
and so the idea is , now , if you 've got all sorts of urgent problems to invest in something that you 've got later  and what happens is that the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world , the ipcc look and say , okay , this is not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worry .
but here 's my dream is that , if you can make it economically , and at the same time , it removes the co2 , then the skeptics say , " okay , i 'm not interested in that it emits no carbon , i almost wished that it did , but i 'm going to accept it , because it is cheaper than the previous method . "
and that would be your response to the bjorn lomborg argument is that , if you took all this time and energy used in order to solve the co2 problem , suffer from all the other targets , including the poverty reduction , the fight against malaria , and so on , is that it 's a silly waste of resources to invest money , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending for research  we say the u.s. should do 10 billion a year spend more than it is today  this is not so dramatic .
among other things should not suffer .
then you come to large sums of money , and reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that is not economically , and tried to finance . for me , most of the waste is happening here .
unless you 're very close to a breakthrough costs and funded only the learning curve . i think we should try more things that have the potential to be a lot cheaper .
if the swab , gets the , you know , is a very high price of energy , we can compete only the rich .
i mean , all of us here could be five times as much for our energy without spending to change his lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion but it is a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about .
his new ploy is now : " why isn 't discussed more research ? "
it is still , because of his previous stories , associated with the sceptics camp , but he understands that this is a very lonely group , and that is why he is now the research argument .
and this is a train of thought , which i think is appropriate .
the research , it 's just crazy how little the support .
bill , i think i speak for almost all of the people here , if i say i really hope that your wish come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skill , a design contest called " the marshmallow challenge . "
the idea is pretty simple . four teams must be the greatest freestanding structure with 20 spaghetti , about 1 m duct tape , build a 1 m thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow must be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it 's actually really hard , because it pushes people work very quickly .
and so i thought that this is an interesting idea , and i 've turned it into a design workshop .
it was a tremendous success .
since then , i 've done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos fortune 50 companies , and there 's something in this task , what deep insights into the nature of cooperation , and i want to share with you some of them .
normally , most people start to orient themselves to the task .
they talk about it , they consider how it will look , they jockey for power .
then you invest a little time in planning and organization . they outline and put spaghetti .
they invest most of their time in the assembly of increasing structures
and finally , shortly before they 've run out of time , someone takes the marshmallow and they bring it back to the top , take a step back and " ta da ! " they admire their work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the " ta da " to a " uh oh " is because of the weight of the marshmallows that bridge , and the whole thing will fall down .
there are a number of people who are much more " uh oh " moments than others , and among the worst are fresh graduates go to business school .
they lie , they cheat , they are really confused and produce a meager entity .
and of course , there are teams that much more " ta da " entity , and are among the best fresh graduates of the kindergarten .
and that 's pretty amazing .
as peter told us they don 't produce only the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
you might be wondering what is : how come ? why ? what about that ?
and tells peter : " none of the children to be invested time to head the spaghetti gmbh . "
they don 't have time to invest in power struggles .
but there is another reason .
and that is that have been trained to business school students , to find a plan , ok !
and to do it .
then what happens when you put the marshmallow on the tip , they 've run out of time , and what happens ?
it is a crisis .
sound familiar , what ?
what is making kindergarten children differently , that they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so they often have the opportunity to repair dilapidated prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as a nucleus of an iterative process .
and with every attempt to get the children in the immediate feedback what works and what doesn 't .
so the performance is to work with prototypes , much  but we see again , act like different teams .
the average for the most part is about 50 cm , business students create half of them lawyers , a little bit more , but not very much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
1 m is the ultimate thing that i 've seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and himself , geometric patterns are the key to build a stable structures .
kodak is slightly higher than average . but here is where it gets interesting .
putting an executive administrator on the team , they are significantly better .
it 's unbelievable . they see themselves , and " this team will win . "
they can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the process .
they lead the process , they understand it .
and the team that regulates and will focus on the work of improving the performance of the team .
specialized skills and abilities that process and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams who are typically , you get about 6 that have stable structures .
i tried something exciting .
i thought , we bring the poker use in a moment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize to software for the winner .
what do you think happened to those design students ?
what was the outcome ?
that 's what happened here . it 's not a team had a stable structure .
if someone had built a 2.5 cm high design , he would have paid the price .
it 's not so interesting that have high bets a strong effect ?
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
what do you think happened ?
now , you get the benefit of the " prototyping . "
this was from the same , under the best of a bad team .
they produced the highest building in the slightest time .
there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of power and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually invest time to create a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i 'll help create digital tools and processes to help teams , cars , video games and " visual effects " to create .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them to identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , each project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge is a common experience , a common language and attitude to build the perfect prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this very simple exercise .
and for those of you who are interested in , can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it is a blog , where you can see how to build the marshmallows .
there 's a stepbystep guide there .
you can find crazy examples from all over the world , as people and to refine the system .
there is also a world records .
and the basal lesson , i think , is the design is actually a connective , sports .
it requires that we all of our senses to the task , and that we use our thinking , how our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that lies ahead .
and sometimes it is a small prototype of this experience , everything that it takes us from a " uh oh "  to a " ta da " moment .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you very much .
we pretend we have here is a machine .
a great machine , a cool , tedlike machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room must go .
and you can go in the past , you can go into the future ; you can 't stay in the here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i asked my friends lately that question , and they would all go into the past .
i don 't know . they wanted to go back in time , before there were cars or twitter or " american idol " .
i don 't know .
i am convinced that you can 't fight for nostalgia , is drawn to wishful thinking .
and i understand that .
i am not part of that group , i must say .
i don 't want to the past , not because i am an adventurer .
it 's because opportunities do not go back on this planet , they go forward .
so i don 't want in this machine , and i will go into the future .
this is the greatest time ever on this planet , no matter how you create scale : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , falling rates of disease .
there was never a time like this .
my greatgreat grandparents all died when she was 60 .
my grandparents have urged that number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so there should be a better number nine at the beginning of my death .
but it 's not even about people like us , because this is bigger than that .
a child born today can expect in new delhi , to live as long as the richest man in the world , 100 years ago .
think about it . this is an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox have killed tens of billions of people on the planet .
they have shaped the demography of the earth in such a way as to how it has made no war ever .
they 're gone . they have disappeared .
we have defeated them . poof .
in the rich world there are diseases that millions of us have threatened a generation ago , yet .
german measles , diphtheria , polio ...
anybody is still knows what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the achievements of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things , let 's see if it works , change it , if it doesn 't , one of the greatest achievements of humankind .
so that 's the good news .
unfortunately , this is already the whole piece of good news , because there 's a bunch of other problems , and they were mentioned frequently .
and one of them is that , despite all the achievements of a billion people around the world to bed hungry every day .
this number is rising , and she gets very quickly , and that 's a shame .
and not only that , we have used our imagination to destroy this world thoroughly .
drinking water , arable land , rain forests , oil , gas , you disappear , and soon , and if not we us out of this chaos innovate , we also disappear .
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it 's clear that we will be able to produce food , feed the billions of people , without the land on which they live , to rape .
i think we can feed this world with energy that does not destroy them at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , it 's not wishful thinking .
but here 's what keeps me up at night  one of the things that keep me up at night . we took scientific advances have never been so much as it is now , never .
and we were never able to apply it properly , as we have today .
we are on the cusp of amazing , amazing events in many areas , but i really think that we have to take hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment , in order to find a time when we have fought progress , in which we have getritten about these things more violent , more fronts than it is now .
the people wrap into their faith , and that is so tight that you can 't get rid of it .
not even the truth will deliver them .
and you hear , everyone has a right to his opinion ; even a right to his opinion about the progress .
but , you know , what do you have no right ?
they have no right to their own facts . ' sorry , you don 't have .
and it took me a while to find out .
a decade or so ago , i have an article about immunizations for " the new yorker , wrote a small article .
and i was surprised to encounter resistance , in opposition to what is at the end of the most effective measure in the health care system in the history of mankind .
i didn 't know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article and continued .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified foods .
the same thing , only bigger .
the people were crazy .
so i wrote an article about this , and i couldn 't understand why people thought , that would be " frankenstein food " , why they believed that move was molecules in a certain way , instead of a random attack on the territory of nature .
but , you know , i 'm doing what i do . i wrote the article , i continued .
i mean , i 'm a journalist .
we hit , we rich , we 're going to eat , that 's okay .
but these articles were worried , and i couldn 't figure out why , and finally , i found it out .
and that 's because these fanatics who were made me crazy little fanatics .
these were prudent people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let 's face it :
we have reached a point where we have the same relationship to the progress as it used to be .
we 're talking ambivalent about it .
we 're talking about it , with a little ironic quotation marks around it , " progress " .
okay , there are some reasons , and i think we know what are the reasons .
we have the confidence in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in the science itself is lost , and there is no reason why it shouldn 't .
you can call it a few names , and the people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , older , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose their own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we believed that they had always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask to see the evidence , you demand evidence .
you take nothing at face value .
but here 's the kicker : if you need to get evidence you accept that evidence , and that we are not good .
and i can say this for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear that i have never seen , and hopefully will never see again .
about 12 years ago , was published a story , a terrible story that the autism epidemic with the measles , mumps , and rubella vaccine .
very scary .
numerous studies have been conducted to see if that were true .
tons of studies should be conducted ; this is a serious matter .
the data would come in .
the data would come in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no relationship , no , no .
it makes no difference . it doesn 't matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see what we believe to see what makes us feel real .
we believe nonteaching staff in a bundle of documents from a government that gives us data , and i understand that , i think that we all do .
but you know what ?
the result was disastrous .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world , in which the vaccination rate for measles .
this is scandalous and we should be ashamed .
it 's terrible .
what happens is that we 've been able to do that .
now , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has measles ?
die has seen one in the audience ever someone from measles ?
doesn 't happen very often .
not happening in this country , but 160,000 times in the world in the last year .
there are many death by measles , 20 per hour .
but because this did not happen here , we can crowd out there , and people like jenny mccarthy can run around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms such as oprah and larry king live .
and we can make them , because they cause and correlation .
they don 't understand that these things seem to be equal , but are almost never the same .
and that 's something that we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst scourges of humanity .
don 't worry , no pain , polio , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle , not so much .
his name is paul offit .
he has developed with some other people a rota virus vaccine .
he can save the lives of 400 , 500,000 children per year in the developing world .
it 's pretty good , right ?
well , that 's good , apart from the fact that paul walks and talks about vaccines and says how valuable they are , and that 's what people should stop easy to complain .
and that 's what he actually says so .
paul is a terrorist .
if paul speaks in a public hearing , he can 't tell without armed guards .
he gets calls home , because people tell him that they know where their children go to school .
and why ? because paul has made a vaccine .
i don 't say that , but vaccines are essential .
you take them away , the diseases , terrible diseases , and this is what 's happening .
we now live in a country that measles .
and it 's going to get worse , and pretty soon will be dying children , because that 's just a matter of numbers .
and they 're just not going to die from measles .
what about polio ? we take that . why not ?
and i wondered why i wrote and told me a couple of weeks ago , she thinks i 'm a little bit too shrill .
no one has said this before .
she would not vaccinate their children against polio . absolutely not .
fine .
why ? because we have no polio . and you know what ?
we had in this country yesterday , no polio .
now , i don 't know , maybe somebody was up this morning in lagos on a plane and flies straight to los angeles , at the moment , he is about ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up and rent a car , and he comes to long beach , and he will get one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he does not know that he is infected with a crippling disease , and we don 't know that as well , because that 's how the world works .
this is the planet on which we live . you don 't do as if he 's not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love it .
did you this morning , all your vitamins ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium , which helps you .
i know that you 've done that , because half of americans it every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative remedies , and it doesn 't matter how often we find out that they are useless .
the data show that all the time .
they darken your urine . they almost never do more .
that 's okay , you want to be happy to pay $ 28 billion for dark urine .
i fully agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
now , i think , i understand  we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate to a strong government . we have no confidence in the system .
and nor should they be . our health care system is bad .
it 's cruel to millions of people .
it 's absolutely amazing cold and seelentötend itself to us who can afford it .
so , we 'll walk away from this , and where we run ?
we are running into the arms of the placebo industry .
that 's great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this really is a serious matter , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars .
and i have all sorts of small props here .
none of these  gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , because i don 't know what that is , but we 're spending billions of dollars from , it 's fraud .
and you know what ? if i say this , tell me scream at people and say , " what is it you ? let 's make the people what they want .
so they feel good . "
and you know what ? they are wrong .
because i don 't care whether it 's the health minister , who says , " hmm , i will not accept the evidence of my experts to breast cancer " or any snakeoil , who wants to treat his patients with coffee einläufen .
if you go to this path , where they replace faith and magic evidence and science , you 'll come to a place where you don 't want to be .
they reach thabo mbeki in south africa .
he brought 400,000 of his people around , because he insisted that red beet , garlic and remineralization are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs , which we know that they can slow down the progression of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that has plagued worse than any other of this disease .
don 't tell me that these things have no consequences .
they have . they always have .
now , the hirnloseste epidemic , where we are now , is this absurd struggle between those of genetically modified food and the organic elite .
this is an idiotic debate . they must stop .
it is a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything that we eat , each grain of rice , each branch parsley , every brussels sprouts , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there was no " marginal melons .
there was no christmas trees . " we have done everything .
we have made it in the last 11,000 years .
and much of it has not worked and some things .
we got rid of what has gone wrong .
now , we can make it more closely . and , of course , there are risks . but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people , millions of people to extend their lives .
that 's what you don 't do ?
i must say , i do not understand .
we reject genetically modified food .
why are we doing this ?
now , what i hear is constantly : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we do not want a huge fields with a thing , this is wrong .
we don 't want that companies patent life .
we don 't want that companies have seeds .
and , you know , what is my answer to all of this ?
yes , you 're right . we fix it .
it 's true , we have a huge food problem , but that 's not rocket science .
this has nothing to do with science .
it 's right , morality , patent stuff .
they know that science is not a company .
it is not a country .
it 's not even an idea ; it 's a process .
it is a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes not , but the idea that we should not allow the science to do their work , because we have to fear is a real impasse , and she holds millions of people from the flowering .
you know , in the next 50 years we will have to grow 70 percent more food than in the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need it , and we don 't give it to them .
and why ? genetically modified food .
we want to encourage people not to eat this rotted stuff , such as cassava .
yuka is something that we eat half a billion people .
it 's kind of like a potato .
it 's just a bunch of calories . it 's bad .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists build all this precisely .
and then the people could eat it and would not be blind .
they were not starving , and you know what ?
it would be nice . it wouldn 't be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is : why do we fight it ?
i mean , we wonder : why do we fight it ?
because we want to move no genes ?
it 's not about to move genes . it 's not about chemicals .
it 's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insistence on more food , better food , unique food .
this is not about rice kris pies , the idea is to get people alive , and it is high time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don 't do that , if we continue to get down to where we owe something , i think , don 't want to be guilty , hightech colonialism .
there is no other explanation for what 's going on here .
it is selfish , it 's ugly , it 's not our worthy , and we need to stop this really .
after this incredibly funny entertainment , so maybe you want to say : " do you still go into these ridiculous time machine and in the future ? "
in any case . i 'll have that in any case .
at the moment , it is in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can make this time machine to everything that we want .
we can move it where we want to move , and we 're going to get them to where we want to .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but if we go into the time machine and will go in the future we will be glad to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i 'm concerned , this is what the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for some time , i 'm interested in the placebo effect . it may seem odd that cares for a magician , unless you look at it as i do , as " a deception , which is easily to make a difference , if somebody believes only see enough of it . "
in other words , sugar pills have shown in some studies to have a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and only because the person thinks , what happens is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in the pain management , for example , there is , if you believe the patient is just hard enough , a measurable effect in the body , which is called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes easily to something , because someone perceiving it that way .
so that we understand each other , i would like to show you now just a basic , simple magic trick .
and i 'm going to show you how it works . this is a trick that at least since the 1950 s , in any magic book for children .
and i learned it from the cub scout magic of the scout in the ' 1970 s .
i 'm going to do it for you , and then explain to him .
and then i 'll explain why i declare him .
so , you can see what happens .
the knife , which you can investigate ; my hand , which you can look at .
i 'm going to keep the knife like that in my fist .
i push my sleeve .
and in order to ensure that nothing in my sleeve or disappears from him to come out , i 'm just going to inject my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that at no time for anything . as long as i zudrücke here , or get nothing in my sleeve .
and the goal here is very simple .
i 'm going to open up my hand , and hopefully , if all goes well , will be recorded the knife through my mere physical magnetism .
it is actually so realistically that i can shake , without dropping the knife .
nothing moves in my sleeve or comes out , no trickery . and you can look at everything .
ta da !
now , this is a trick that i often beibringe small children who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception , if you look closely , although it 's a very simple concurrent trick .
probably know many of you in this room this trick .
it works like this :
i think the knife in my hand .
i say that i might encircle my wrist to ensure that nothing in my sleeve or disappears , and that is a lie .
the reason why i maintain my wrist , is that this is the real secret of the illusion .
in that moment , where i get my hand turning away from you , so you can see it from behind , moves this finger here , my finger , simply from wherever he was , in a position in which he is stretched out like this .
great trick ?
in the back there is someone who had no childhood .
so , he is here . exactly .
and if i turn myself , it changes its position of the finger .
and now we could talk about why this is a deception , why not discernable to see down here are just three fingers : because of the mind and the way he handled information , it doesn 't count individually , one , two , three , but she sees as a group .
but that 's not the point here . and then i open my hand .
of course , it is being held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , through my finger , who is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing is happening , by me , i zurückdrehe is hidden by this movement that moved backwards of the finger .
i 'm going to take this hand off . and here 's the knife .
this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that blew me really , really .
i 'm not a doctor or a scientist , and so for me , that was an amazing thing .
it turns out that is this : if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin tablet , it 's just a round , white pill , which has a certain measurable effect .
but if you think about the way in which you give the placebo , change , for example , in a smaller pill , and these blue dye and define a character that , in fact , it is measurable more effective .
and that , although none of them any pharmaceutical ... there are merely sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? it made me really freak out .
it turned out that there is more to the story .
if you take capsules that are more effective than pills .
a colored capsule , which is at one end of yellow and red on the other hand , is better than a white capsule .
also , the dosage plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills  i can 't remember now on the exact statistics . sorry .
the bottom line is , but ...
... that also play a role in the dosages .
and the form has a role .
and if you are looking for the ultimate placebo effect , you must resort to the needle .
right ? a syringe with a toothless  a few millilitres of an ineffective substance that injecting a patient .
this creates a very strong image in my head . there is so much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really ... i 'm going to show you another time , if we have a projector .
the fact of the matter is that the white pill is as good as the blue pill , which is not so good looks like a capsule , which is not so good looks like the needle .
and none of this has any real pharmaceutical capacity . it 's just our belief , which made us a stronger effect .
i wanted to know whether i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i 'm going to take something that is obviously a deception , and let it look real .
we know from that study that we need to know how to make a needle , if it is to go to the cause .
this is a 18 cm long hutnadel . it 's very , very pointed . and i 'm going to sterilize it , first of all , a little bit .
so this is really my meat . it 's not damians special certified meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
i 'm going to the needle in my skin prick and push through them , until they , on the other side .
if you 're going to  if you fall into impotence  i have shown that a few friends last night in the hotel room , and some people who i didn 't know , and it became a woman almost powerless .
so i suggest , if you will forgive quickly , look for the next 30 seconds away . or , you know what , i 'm going to make the first tricky part back here .
you can see it in the same way , you can look away but also , if you want to .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh , starts at the lower part of my arm , i 'm going to make a small puncture .
i 'm really sorry . it makes you crazy ?
and now , just a little bit through my skin and on the other hand , so get out .
now we are actually in the same situation that we had the knife trick .
around .
but now you can 't count on my fingers , right ?
so , i 'm going to show it to you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yes .
i know what people think when they see this .
they say , " okay , which is definitely not so dumb and penetrates the skin itself , only to discuss a couple of minutes . "
well , then i 'm going to show it to you .
what is this ? it 's pretty good .
yes , i know .
and people say in the back , " okay . i didn 't see that right . "
the people in the adjoining rooms now come in .
let me demonstrate you from the neighborhood .
that 's really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn it .
sorry . when you are sick , look away , don 't look at it .
the people in the back , or those who see it sometime later on video , will say , " well , it 's quite impressive , but if it was real , he would  you see , here 's a hole , and , if it would be really authentic , it would bleed . "
okay , let me squeeze a little blood for you .
yes , here it is .
now i would normally take the needle .
i was going to clean up my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think , in this context , and with the intent to make a deception something real , i 'll just the needle in there and let it go from the stage .
we will meet in the next few days or a few times .
i hope you are looking forward . thank you very much .
everybody 's talking today about happiness .
i have some people count the number of books that have been published with " happiness " in the title in the last five years , and they called after about 40 on , and there were a lot more .
there is a huge wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there 's a lot of coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today will be mainly from these cognitive traps .
this is for amateurs who think about their own happiness , and it is important for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as confused as everyone else .
the first of these traps is a reluctance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word is happiness simply no longer useful word , because we apply it on too many different things .
i think there is a particular meaning , which we could confine , but by and large , this is something that we have to give up , and we 're going to have to accept the complicated way of looking at it , what 's wellbeing .
the second case is a confusion between experience and memory : basically it is between happy in his life and be happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they 're both lumped together in the vision of happiness .
and the third is the illusion of concentration , and this is the unfortunate fact that we can think about a factor that influenced by the wellbeing , without distorting its importance .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there is simply no way to get it right .
now , i would like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who wrote a story . [ unclear ... ] he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible bastiaan noise .
and then he added , really quite emotional , which has ruined the whole experience .
but that didn 't have it .
what it was had ruined the memories of the experience .
he had had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of music .
they were not because he was left with a memory . the memory was ruined , and the memory was everything he had gotten for keeping .
what this really tells us is that we could think about us and about other people in the sense of two types of the self .
there 's a erlebendes self that lives in the present and knows the present , is able to experience the past , but basically just the present .
it 's the self that anpricht cements the doctor  you know , if the doctor asks : " do it hurts now , if i anfasse here ? "
and then there 's an oldfashioned self , and the pollen self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it is the one that appeals to the doctor when he asks the question : " how did you feel lately ? "
or , " how was your trip to albania ? " or something like that .
these are two very different units , which cements self and the pollen self , and that is to confuse two part of the turmoil of the notion of happiness .
now , the pollen self is a storyteller .
and it really starts with a basic response to our memories of  it begins immediately .
not only do we tell stories , if we make us to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , in other words , what we can retain from our experiences is a story .
and let me start with an example .
there 's an old study .
these are real patients who undergo a painful procedure .
i won 't go into detail . it is no longer painful , but it was painful , as this study was conducted in the 1990 s .
they were asked to report every 60 seconds about their pain .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and you are asked , " who has suffered from two more ? "
and this is a very simple question .
patient b has suffered more clearly . his clinic was longer , and every minute of pain , had had the patient a patient b , and more .
but now there 's another question : " how much did these patients that they suffered ? "
and here 's a surprise :
and the surprise is that patient a a much worse erinnrung to the clinic had a patient b.
the stories of the bowel mirrors were different , and because it is a very important part of the story of how it ends .
and none of these stories is very dignified or great  but one of them is this clear ...
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and that was worse , where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it 's a terrible story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked those people after her clinic , and also much later , " how bad was the whole thing as a whole ? "
and she was much worse than for a to b in the erinnrung .
now , this is a direct conflict between the self and the learning of self .
from the perspective of the learning self b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we 've actually done clinical trials , and it has been made , and it works , you could actually the clinic of patient a extend simply by removing the hose in it is to shake without too much of it .
it will mean that the patient is suffering , but just a little bit and much less than before .
and if you make a couple of minutes has meant that the self cements of patient a worse off , and it has meant that the pollen self from patient a much better off , because now we have been patient a a better story about his experience .
and this is a story ?
and that goes for the stories that the memory provides us and it also applies to the stories that we invent .
and this is a story that breaks , are significant moments and ends .
they are very , very important , and in this case , the end .
now , that cements self lives his life .
it has moments of bodily , one after the other .
and you ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they 're lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives  and i 've just  you know , the psychological presence is supposed to be about three seconds , which means , you know that there are in a life of about 600 million of them . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them leave no trace .
most of them are completely ignored reminiscent of the self .
and yet , somehow , you get the impression that they should count that during these moments of what 's happening is we are shifting our lives .
it 's a finite resource that we consume while we 're in this world .
and how we consume it would seem to be important , but that is not the story that retains the pollen self for us .
so we have the pollen self and the cements self , and they are really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is dealing with time .
from the perspective of the learning self , if you have a holiday and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two week vacation twice as good as the weeklong vacation .
so it doesn 't work well at all for the pollen self .
for the pollen self is a twoweek vacation hardly better than the weeklong holiday , because there are no new memories .
they have not changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that an oldfashioned self is different from a learning self . it has very little influence on this story .
well , that 's even more than it is to remember and to tell stories .
it 's actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say two intestinal mirrors in two different surgeons had and decides what he 's supposed to choose , then is the one who chooses the one who has the memory , the less bad , and this is the surgeon who will be chosen .
the cements self does not have a voice in this election .
in fact , we don 't choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even if we think about the future , we don 't normally in our future than experiences .
we think about our future as a vorausgesehene memories .
and , in fact , you can see the , you know , as a tyranny reminiscent of the self , and you can think of is the pollen self than one that 's going to drag , so to speak , the cements self through experiences that doesn 't really need it cements self .
i have the impression that if we vacation is very often the case , that is , we 're making vacation largely in the service of its own .
and that 's a bit difficult to justify , i think .
i mean , how much we feed from our memories ?
this is one of the explanations given for the dominance of its self .
and when i think about it , i think of a holiday , we made a couple of years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best holiday i had had ever , and i think fairly often in proportion , how many times i think of other holidays .
and i 've probably from my memories of this threeweek journey , i 'd say about 25 minutes , nurtured in the last four years .
now , if i had ever open the folder with the 600 pictures that i had spent another hour .
well , that 's three weeks , and they are no more than a year and a half hours .
because there seems to be a discrepancy .
well , i may be a little extreme , you know , how i have little appetite for the zehren of memories , but even if you make more of it , there is a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the verlgeich to the weight that we give experiences ?
i therefore want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation before , you know , that are being destroyed at the end of the holiday all your pictures and you get a amnestisches medicine , so that you will remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you were to take a different holiday , there is a conflict between your two types of the self , and you have to think about how you decide to this conflict , and that is really not at all obvious , because if you think in terms of time , you get an answer . and if you could think in terms of memories , you get a different answer .
why do we choose to leave that we choose is a problem that we face a choice between the two types of the self .
now , the two species of the self , two concepts of happiness .
there are really two concepts of happiness , which we can apply , one of the self .
you can ask : how happy is that cements self ?
and they would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the learning self ?
and they are all  happiness for moments is a fairly complex process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the learning self over time .
if you ask about the luck of the self , it 's a completely different thing .
this is not about how to live a happy person .
it is about how the person is happy or excited , if that person is thinking about their lives .
a very different concept .
each of these concepts , not to screw distinguishes the exploration of happiness , and i am among a crowd of researchers about wellbeing , who flunked the exploration of happiness for a long time for this kind of thing .
the distinction between the luck of the learning self and the satisfaction of the self , has been identified in the last few years , and now we try to measure the two separately .
the gallup organization has a global survey , which raised more than half a million people questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences . and there were other efforts in the direction .
in the last few years , we have started to learn about the luck of the two types of the self .
and the main lesson that i think we 've learned is that they are really different .
you can know how someone is satisfied with his life , and that they don 't really know much about how happy he lives his life , and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of the correlation , the correlation is about . 5 .
what this means is that if you were to meet someone and you 'd say , oh , his father is a twometer man , how much would you know about his size ?
now , you would know something about its size , but there 's a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that somebody has framed his life as an eight on a scale of ten , a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his learning self .
the correlation is quite small .
we know something about what controls the satisfaction of happiness self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly to be satisfied with people we like to spend time with people who we like .
there are other pleasure , but that is dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of the self are you going to do at the end of a very different things .
the conclusion of what i 've said here that we should not have imagined happiness really as a substitute for wellbeing .
it 's a completely different concept .
well , very briefly , another reason why we can think about is not clear about happiness that we don 't pay attention to the same things if we think about life , and if we live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy they are the people in california , you don 't get the correct answer .
if you ask this question you think that people need to be happier in california , say , if you live in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and this difference , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that the climate is not very important for the cements self , and it 's not even very important for the thoughtful self , which decides how happy people .
but now , because that 's thoughtful self , you can end up  some people could look at the end to california .
and it 's kind of interesting to watch what happens to people who are moving to california , hoping to be happier .
now , her erlebendes self is not going to be happier .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . they 're going to think that they 're happier , because if they are going to think about it they will remember how the weather was awful in ohio . and they will feel that they 've made the right decision .
it 's very difficult to think clearly about wellbeing , and i hope i 've given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you very much .
now , when we were talking on the phone a few weeks ago , you mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of the gallup poll .
this is something that you can share with us , because now you can have a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we 've found in the gallup poll a number that we expected to find absolutely not .
we found that in terms of the luck of the learning self .
if we looked at how feelings vary with the income .
and it turns out that under an income of $ 60,000 a year , for americans , and that 's a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it is a great representative sample , under an income of $ 600,000 per year
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , the people are unhappy , and they are increasingly unhappy , the poorer they are .
moreover , we get an absolutely flat line .
i mean , i have rarely seen so flat lines .
what happens is obvious that the money is not an experience of happiness , but that the lack of money is certainly a misery , and we can measure this misery is very , very clear .
in the spirit of the other self , reminiscent of the self , you get a different story .
the more money you earned the happier you are .
with the exception of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american ambition is about life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take these findings seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything that we think , for example , on tax policy and so on .
there is a chance that politicians , that would take the country in general , a finding as the seriously and make policy based on that ?
dk : you know , i think that there is a recognition of the role of the happiness research in politics .
the recognition will be slowly in the united states , no question , but they 're not going to happen in the united kingdom , and in other countries , it 's happening right now .
the people are beginning to recognize that they should think about happiness , if they think about policy .
it will take a while , and people will be discussing whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life evaluation , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how can you 're lucky , very differently depending on how you think and whether you think of the self , or whether you think about the cements self .
this is going to influence policy , i think , in the next few years .
in the united states , you look at the experience , to measure happiness in the population .
that , i think , will be in the next decade or two , part of the national statistics .
now , it seems to me that this will be , or should , at the very least , the most interesting political debate to track his over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i 'm jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i develop online games for 10 years now . and my goal for the next decade , to make it as easy to save the world in the real world , is how to save them in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , more time playing greater and greater games to spend .
at the moment , we spend 3 billion hours a week with online games .
some of you may think , " that 's a hell of a lot of time for games . "
perhaps a little too much time , considering how much we have to solve many problems in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future , according to the exact opposite is true .
three billion hours per week are not nearly enough to solve the most pressing problems in the world .
in fact , i am convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to increase the time dramatically .
i have calculated that the amount of time at 21 billion hours playing time per week .
this seems a little strange at first , so i repeat it , so that it can act : if we problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , want to solve global conflicts and obesity , i think , we must try to play online games for at least 21 billion hours a week until the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture describes almost exactly why i believe that games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . but seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the emotions play . so he has built before the players with a camera .
this is one of the classic expressions playing .
if you 're not a player , you may miss some of the nuances in this picture .
they probably see this sense of urgency , a bit of fear , but also the most extreme concentration , absorbed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you play , you 'll see some nuances here , the high eyes and the mouth are a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player who is on the verge of a socalled epic victory .
oh , you 've seen this . ok . that 's great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is an outcome that is so incredibly positive that you didn 't even notice that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond imagination .
and when you get there , you are shocked to see that you 're actually create something . this is an epic victory .
this player is on an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see faces on millions of providers around the world , if we take the hurdles of the next century . the face of those who are against all odds on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we see more of this face in real life , when we see difficult problems .
i refer to it as the " in life , i am bad " face . and it 's actually my face , right ? yeah ? ok .
this is me , as i am , " in life i 'm bad , " face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my doctoral thesis on why we in games are better than in real life .
this is a problem that many players .
we think that we are not in the real world as good as in games .
and i don 't mean just less successful , although that is part of it .
we achieve in game worlds more . i mean well in the context of the motivation to do something important , inspired to cooperate with each other .
if we are in a game world , i believe that many of us transform themselves into our best version , anytime and immediately helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as necessary , try it again after the failure .
and in the real world , if we fail , if we run into obstacles , we often feel differently .
we feel overwhelmed us . we feel defeated us . we feel threatened us , perhaps , depressed , frustrated or cynical .
these feelings we never have , if we play games , in games they simply do not exist .
and that 's what i wanted to investigate as a graduate student .
why is it in games , impossible to think that you could not achieve anything ?
how can we transmit those feelings from the games in the real world ?
so i started looking at games like world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for the common problem solving .
and i noticed a couple of things that make epic victories in online worlds as possible .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to entrust you a weltrettende mission , and now .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly with your current level in the game , right ?
so you can achieve that .
they never get a job that you can 't solve .
but always on the edge of your abilities , so you have to make the effort . but there 's no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you do not sit around and around . there 's always better to do something important .
and there are tons of employees .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people who work with you to complete your epic mission .
we don 't have that in real life , the sense that with a snap of employees .
there is also this epic story , this inspiring story , why we are here and what we have to do .
then we can get this whole positive feedback .
they have determined by " high " and "s 1 " or " starchs 1 intelligence . "
this constant feedback doesn 't exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i did not speak and :s 1s 1s 20 crazy idea , crazy idea .
i 'm not in real life this feedback .
so , is the problem of collaborative online worlds such as world of warcraft , that it 's so gratifying to stand at any time on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all our time in this game worlds .
they 're just better than the reality .
so far have spent all the world of warcraft players together 5.93 million years to solve the problems of azeroth .
this is not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound .
but in order to see it in context : before 5.93 million years ago started to go our first primate ancestors .
so the first upstanding primacy .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend at the moment , with games that makes sense only when you consider the time in terms of the magnitude of human development at what is extraordinary .
but also appropriate . because it turns out that because we use this time to the games , actually change what we are as people .
we develop us collectively minded , warm creatures .
that 's the truth . that is what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic , which was recently published by a researcher from carnegie mellon university , the average young person of today in a country with a strong game culture spends 10,000 hours of online games until the age of 21 .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number , from 2 reasons .
first of all , for children in the united states , 10,080 hours of the exact total time that they spend in school , from the 5 th grade until the end of the high school  if there is no such thing .
so we have a parallel education , learning on the young people in the same way , what it means to be a good player , like everything else , what they learn in school .
and perhaps some of you have a new book by malcolm gladwell , " highflyer , " read .
so what do you know of his theory of success , the theory of the success of the 10,000 hours .
it 's based on the research of cognitive science is that , if we 10,000 hours with the arduous studies of any issue until the age of 21 . spend , we become masters in it .
we 're so good at what to do , such as the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is an entire generation of young people , are the champions player .
the big question is : " what exactly are masterfully good players ? "
because if we could figure this out , we would have previously virtually unprecedented human potential .
so many people we currently have in the world who spend at least one hour per day with online games .
these are our master player . 500 million people , the exceptionally well in " something " are .
and in the next decade , we have a billion more players , the exceptionally well in whatever .
if you haven 't heard it yet .
the games industry develops consoles , save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
one expects an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a total of 1.5 billion player .
so i started to consider what it is , what are these games to masters .
here are the 4 things which i found . first of all : urgent optimism .
ok , now , imagine how extreme self motivation .
dringlichkeits optimism is the desire to do something now to meet a hurdle , together with the belief that we have good reason to hope for success .
players always think that is an epic victory possible , and that it is always worthwhile to try it , just down the road .
players do not sit around .
players are masters in the spider denser social networks .
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we may have more people , after we have played with them , even if they have defeated us .
the reason is that it requires a lot of confidence to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone is spending time with us to observe the rules that we have the same goal and stay till the end of the game .
in other words , the combination of the growth of ties , trust and cooperation .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
felicity of productivity . fantastic !
you know , there 's a reason why does the average world of warcraft players 22 hours a week , as a parttime job .
the reason is that , when we play , we are actually happy to work hard , as if we relax or do nothing .
we know that we function as human beings , if we get tough , important work .
and players are always ready to work hard , if they get the right job .
and , ultimately , epic importance .
players love to be part of aweinspiring missions day planetary proportions .
here 's a background information , in order to bring it in perspective . they all know wikipedia , the largest encyclopedia in the world .
the second largest encyclopedia in the world , with nearly 80,000 entries is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they have gathered more information about world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result . players are super powerful , hopeful individuals .
there are people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
and the only problem is that they believe that they can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
this is the problem that i am trying to solve .
edward castro nova is a popular scientist .
his work is ingenious . it examines why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , " we are not witnesses of less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online gaming environments . "
and this from an economist . so it is logical .
and he says ...
so as i ... i develop games , i am a little exuberant .
so he says , that actually makes sense , because players can achieve in online worlds more than in real life .
you can make in games stronger social bonds than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
so , he says , it is now perfectly logical that players spend more time in the virtual world as in the real .
i agree to start , that 's logical .
but it 's definitely not a optimal situation .
we need to begin to transform the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that took place 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes , from sheep 's ankles . you know ?
in front of these fantastic games controllers , there were sheep 's ankle .
and these were sort of the first game of people developed devices .
and if you are familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story about how and why were invented games .
according to herodotus were games , to be precise , dice games , invented in the uk lydia during a famine .
supposedly , there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to become a crazy idea .
suffering people . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . it took an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the dice game and agreed a national strategy . in one day would eat . the next day they would play .
and they would be so much deeper into the dice game , because games are so fascinating and us with a satisfactory , surrounded blissful productivity , that she would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day they would play . and the next day would eat .
and , according to herodotus so they survived for 18 years , this famine . they ate in a day and played the next .
in the same way , i think , we put a games today .
we use games to escape the sufferings of the physical world .
we use games to avoid everything that doesn 't work in the real world , is not all that in real life satisfaction , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn 't have to be the end .
that 's the exciting thing .
according to herodotus was not after 18 years of the famine better . so , i decided that the king to have one last dice game .
they divided the uk into two halves .
they played a dice game , and the winners were allowed to go to an epic adventure .
they left lydia and started talking to a new home . they were just so many people back , as it were , and were looking for food to survive with the rest after an area where they could thrive .
it sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence to show that the etruscans , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydier .
so scientists recently came to the conclusion that herodotus ' is actually crazy story .
and geologists have found evidence of a global cooling , which lasted for almost 20 years , which could explain the famine .
so could vote this crazy story .
in fact , they may have saved her people through play , in that they have taken refuge in games for 18 years and then had this intuition and so much about the play , learned that they have rescued by the entire civilization .
so , that we can .
we play since 1994 .
that was the first realtime strategy game in the world of warcraft series . that was 16 years ago .
they were playing dice games for 18 years , we play for 16 years .
i would argue that we are prepared for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization in search of a new world . that 's why i take my game 21 billion hours a week .
we should agree that half of us spend an hour a day with games , until we have solved the problems of the real world .
i know , you may ask , " how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? " and that is what i have dedicated my job in the last few years at the institute for the future .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , it is a measure of how we should understand the future .
we don 't want to try to tell the future .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome . and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we meet epic victories before and give people the opportunity to achieve them .
i 'll show you very briefly three games that i 've designed to try to give people epic victories in their own future .
this is a " world without oil . "
the game is from 2007 .
it 's an online game in which you have to overcome a scarcity .
the oil shortage is invented , but we have enough content online , so that it is realistic for you and you live your real life , in fact , without oil . so , if you sign up for the game , you tell us where you live . and then you get news clips in real time , showing you how costs a lot of oil , which there is not , as is compromised food supply , such as transportation is impaired , whether schools are closed , if there are insurgencies . and you have to figure out how to make your real life , if it were true . and we ask you to blog about it , videos or photos .
we tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 . and we 've been with them since then , over the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transforming experience .
no one wants to change his life , because it is good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you 're in an epic adventure , and said : " we are going to get the oil from . "
this is a great adventure , which you go .
you 'll find out how you would survive . most of our players have learned to maintain habits in the game .
so we went for the next weltrettende play a larger , higher target than just scarcity .
we have the game " super struct " developed at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years on the planet .
this is called " global aussterbungs supercomputer awarenessraising system , " of course .
the call for players to sign up , we have almost as a " brought " movie .
you know what brought movies , where the " dream team . " they have the astronauts , the scientists , the former lag , and together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just 5 people , we say , everyone is in the dream team , and it is for us , the future of energy , food , health , safety and to create the future of social justice .
8,000 players who were playing the game for 8 weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions , which you can read , if you google " super struct " .
and the last game we bring on march 3 . it 's a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you sign the game , you get from the world bank , " the logic umgestalter , " in 2010 .
we 're working with universities across subsaharan africa , and they invite you to learn social reshaping .
we have a comic book . we have " high " for local knowledge and understanding , networking , sustainability , vision and imagination .
i would like to invite you all to share this game with young people , all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit to imagine together their own social ventures , in order to save the world .
now i come to the end .
i would like to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we have not rescued the real world .
well , i hope that you agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great significance for change .
we have all these superpowers , felicity of productivity , the ability to forge strong social networks , urgent optimism and the desire to epic importance .
i really hope that we play together significant games , in order to survive on this planet another century .
and i hope that you will come up and play these games with me .
looking ahead into the next decade , i am sure of two things : that we can make any conceivable future , and that we can play all sorts of games .
so i say , let 's start thinking these really bigpicture games !
thank you .
i could tell you what , i noticed a few months ago when writing an article for italian wired .
i have always when you write my synonym dictionary at hand , but i was with the editing of the text is finished , and it occurred to me that i 've never found in my life , what the word " retarded " really means .
i read you the entry .
" disabled " , adjective : " maimed , helpless , useless , destroyed , died , maimed , wounded , battered , paralyzed , verwahrlostvvpp separated , obsolete , weakened , impotent , castrated , paralyzed , handicapped senile , decrepit , taken out of circulation , improving there , done , broke , injured over , they see also , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . "
i read this list a friend and had to laugh out loud , it seemed so ridiculous , but i only came to " battered " and could no longer continue , and had to stop reading and i went to collect these raids word flood and the significant emotional shock .
of course , this was a frayed , old synonym dictionary . i thought that must be the output pretty old .
but in fact , it 's an issue in the early 80 s , when i started with the elementary school and started to build my selfimage outside my family environment and to shape , even in relation to other children and to the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i used at the time , not a synonym dictionary .
then i would take it seriously , i was born in a world that someone like me as a person , whose lives may be in any way . but today i 'm going for the opportunities and adventure , which i have seen .
so i called , and i expect the online edition of 2009 , i find a better way .
here is the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it is not much better .
in particular , shake me the last two words  " near antonyms " " no " and " healthy . "
but it 's not just about the words .
it is about what we think about the people who we describe with these words .
it 's about the values that are in these words , and how we design these values .
our language influenced how we think and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including that of the greeks and the romans , really believed that the debate of a curse a great power , because what you speak out loud , can also manifest themselves .
so , what do we actually want to manifest  a disabled person or a powerful people ?
just to be a human heedless as a child , it could be enough to restrict it and impose their ideas .
wouldn 't it be nice to open doors for you ?
a man who has opened doors for me , was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington , delaware .
his name is dr. pizzutillo . a italo americans whose name , as you can imagine that most americans couldn 't speak correctly . so he was called always dr. p. .
and dr. p. was always very colorful flies and was created to work with children , simple as that .
i found the time that i spent in the hospital , just great  up to my physical therapy .
i had to individual exercises seemingly infinite repeat often with these thick , elastic bands  in different colors  the , you know , in order to build up my leg muscles . and i have these tapes hated more than anything else . i 've hated it . i 've cursed them . i 've hated it .
and you can imagine , i 've already negotiated as a fiveyearold kid with dr. p. and try to stop these exercises , yay , without success .
and one day , he looked at me in one of my exercises  these exercises were just tiring and unforgiving  and he said to me , " wow , aimee , you 're so strong , powerful and young girl , you 're going to tear up one day one of these tapes .
and if you manage , i give you hundreds of dollars . "
of course , that was just a simple trick of dr. p. , so i 'm going to do the exercises that i didn 't want to make , with the prospect of becoming the richest five yearold girl in the infirmary on the second floor . but he has actually brought me to see my daily exercise horror with new eyes . so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder now how much his vision of mine has shaped as a strong and powerful young girl my self image , and i had imagined that , to me as an inherently strong , powerful and to see atlethischen man .
this is just one of many examples of how to encourage adults in positions of power , the imagination of a child .
but as evidenced by the already cited examples from the synonym dictionaries , gives us our language no room to imagine something that we would all wish : to make it possible for everyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is lagging behind the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from a medical point of view , you can say , of course , that my legs , the laser surgery for visual impairment , knee joints made of titanium and hip replacements for aging body that allow people to really make use of all their options and learn about the borders , which has set its natural fate to develop , not to mention social networking platforms that allow people to give up its own identity , defined in its own way , and it all over the world to groups that they find themselves .
so perhaps illustrates this technological change is clearer than ever that there was always another truth , which is that every person in society can be something very special features of dining and very power , and that the human capacity to adapt , is our biggest asset .
in adapting the human capacity  this is an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell you how i deal with adversity customarily and i will confess to you something : this phrase has never fit for me and i felt very uncomfortable with it , to answer the questions of people , and i think eventually i understand why .
this sentence about dealing with adversity thrives on the idea that success or happiness , to meet a challenge without shaped by the experience . as if my life would have been so successful , because i was able to dodge the potential pitfalls of a life with a prosthesis , or how people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we change us . of course , we are marked by the challenge , whether they are physically , emotionally or even both are
and i would argue that this is a good thing .
widrigkeiten are not an obstacle that we need to umkurven , to come with our lives better .
widrigkeiten simply belong to our lives .
and i tend to see adversity than my shadow .
sometimes i notice that he 's very present , sometimes it 's hard to see it , but he is always with me .
and i certainly want to reduce the incidence and severity of the struggle of a human being .
there are obstacles and challenges , and they 're just alllzu real , and so that every person is different . but the question is not whether we clearly come with adversity or not , but how do we make clear .
so we are not only responsible to the people we love , to preserve the fateful shots , but also prepare them to come to terms with a good thing .
and we are doing our kids any favors , if we give them the sense that they could not adapt .
you have to separate two things : one , the medical fact , to be amputated , and the other is the social opinion about whether i 'm disabled or otherwise .
and , to be honest , the only real and permanent disability , which i had to sit apart , is that the world all the time , she could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are at the heart and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prognosis or even a prognosis for the quality of life , which it expects , we must be careful that we do not stop the foundations for the fact that somebody actually has a disability .
perhaps the current concept that cares only about what is in a broken , and how do we fix that , for every single greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we do not treat the people as a whole , and accept and not all his forces and possibilities , we create in addition to its natural battle that they need to lead , perhaps another disease .
we turn a person who has a value for our society .
so we need to look beyond the pato logie , and focus on every field of human possibilities .
but the most important thing is that it between the perception of our shortcomings and our great ingenuity , there is a connection .
we should not deny or devalue these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we sweep them under the carpet , but it is important to recognize in the adversities opportunities .
it is perhaps more important is to make it clear that we must overcome adversity is not necessarily , but that we are open , to embrace them to use to put them in the hands of a fight , and perhaps even to dance with it .
and maybe we manage adversity as something natural , coherent and useful to see and feel not burdened us through their presence .
this year we celebrate the 200 th anniversary of charles darwin and as he has written 150 years ago about evolution , darwin , in my eyes , highlighted something very real in the human character .
i would describe it : not survived the largest of its kind , and not even the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to changes .
from conflicts , creativity .
not just from darwin 's work , we know that the ability of humans to survive and thrive , is determined by the battle of the human spirit , to transform itself through conflicts .
so , once again , change and adaptation are the greatest capabilities of human beings .
and maybe we know what we are carved , if we really are tested .
perhaps that 's exactly the point of adversity , a sense of self , a sense of our own strength .
we can give us so something themselves .
we can be adversities a new meaning that goes beyond hard times .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
widrigkeiten stand for a change , in which we have not yet adjusted .
i believe that the greatest damage that we 've inflicted on himself , is to believe that we 're supposed to be normal .
let 's be honest  who is normal ?
there is no ordinary .
there are the usual sort of thing . the typical . but not normal . and this poor , would you want to get to know one person really , if it were really ?
i think , not more .
it would be great if we have this paradigm of normalcy against another one of the ways of strength , or to put it even a little bit more dangerous , could replace . so then we can unleash the forces of many , many children , and invite them to develop their own special and valuable skills in the society .
anthropolgen have found out that we asked people from the members of our society , and this is one : to be useful and to contribute .
there is evidence that have already taken the neanderthals 60,000 years ago , the elderly and people with severe physical injuries , and that is what happened , perhaps because it was the experience of life in the survival of these people is valuable for society .
they have not seen these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and value .
a few years ago , i went in the city where i was brought up , in a food market in the " red zone " in northeastern pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a bushel of tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me says , " well if it is not aimee mullins . "
and i turned around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i was like , " excuse me , sir , we are familiar with us ? i cannot remember you . "
and he said , " well , you know , you could hardly remember to me .
when i saw you for the first time , i 've got you out of the belly of your mother . "
oh , the .
and , of course , has made it , but then click .
that was dr. keane , a man , whom i knew only from narratives of my mother on this day , because i , of course , is quite typical , came to my birthday two weeks too late .
the doctor for prenatal diagnosis , my mother was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who led me to the world , not at all .
and because i was born without fibulas legs , and my feet out after they had put and i was only had a couple of toes on this and a few other toes at the foot of the messenger , these strangers , he had to deliver the bad news .
he said to me , " i had to tell your parents that you would never run , and would never be as versatile as other children , or that you never an independent life could lead , and since then , you have been punished me . "
truly extraordinary , i found that he has collected press clippings of my entire childhood , it doesn 't matter whether i 'd won in a book , in the second grade , if i was with the scouts in the parade of halloween , it doesn 't matter whether i gained my scholarship or one of my sporting victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called that part of his training the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can 't emphasize enough how easy it can be crucial factor for the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. keane said , he said , " i 've learned that children , if they are not always said something else , and even if they get a little bit of support , leaving children themselves , then children can achieve a lot . "
you see , dr. keane has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how to deal with someone , are two different things .
and also i 've changed my thinking over time , if they 'd asked me at the age of 15 , if i had changed my prostheses against legs of flesh and bone , then i would have hesitated a second .
i wanted to do was absolutely normal .
if you ask me today , i am not so sure .
and that 's what happens , developing i have seen something wrong with my legs and achieved these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen , because i met so many people that i have opened doors , rather than to deal with people who want to restrict myself or i wanted to impose an idea .
you see , there 's really only one person who shows you how you can express your forces , and you 're through .
if you allow someone to activate its own internal forces  the human mind is so finetuned  if you can bring this open , and for someone in a crucial moment in a door , then you are for these people , a very good teacher .
they bring them to open doors for themselves .
the real meaning of the word " educate " is rooted in the word " educe . "
it means to produce something that is in a , squeeze out the potential .
again , what would you like to call up potential we do now ?
in the 60 s , there was a case study in britain , when colleges were turned into total schools .
they call it " trials " streaming in the us we refer to it as " tracking " .
the students are divided according to notes .
and the a students are tested verbally harder to get the better teacher , and so on .
then they have over a threemonth period of students with a " third , " the note , " very good " . they were told that they were aces that they were very clever . and after three months , they really have written ones .
and , of course , breaks down to hear it in a warm feeling that was stated by the same token , the einser students , they are only enough .
and just as it was after the three months .
but only those who were still in school  except for the pupils who had thrown the school .
it was very important in this study that were not inaugurated the teachers .
the teachers didn 't know that something has changed .
they were simply said that the a students , and that the students are with the approval . and just as they have taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken spirit , a spirit that has been broken , has no hope anymore . he finds nothing more i shared it lacks our natural , childlike neugier. and our innate ability of the imagination .
but if we are able to support the human spirit , to continue to hope , and to find other people around them , curious , and to be imaginative and then we put our forces really positive .
if there is a spirit of these qualities , we can create a new reality and new ways .
i would like to end with a poem by a persian poet named hafiz composed by the 14 th century , and told me my friend jacques dembois . and the poem is called " the god , who knows just four words . " " every child knows about god , not the god of the name , not the god of the bans , but the god who just four words , and repeated this all the time , he says simply : come , dancing with me . "
come on , dancing with me . thank you very much .
